# ariitk_best_practices
This repository contains a sample package that outlines the practices to be used while writing a ROS package. The directory and file system is outlined below:-  
* install  
This folder contains the .rosinstall files whose primary role is to automatically clone all the package dependencies of your ROS package.
For more information on the syntax and usage of rosinstall, please refer to [this link.](https://docs.ros.org/independent/api/rosinstall/html/)   
    * template_https.rosinstall  
    This is the sample rosinstall file for cloning the repository [catkin_simple](https://github.com/catkin/catkin_simple) using https. More repositories can be added as required.  
    * template_ssh.rosinstall
    This is the sample rosinstall file for cloning the same repository as above, but using ssh keys.  
* lib_package_template  
This folder contains the code for the custom libraries that you have written for use in your ROS package. this should not contain any ROS code, and should be modular so that it can be used in other packages as well.  
    * include  
        * lib_package_template  
            * template.hpp  
            These file(s) contains all the includes for the library, and the declarations for all the variables+functions  in the library. All of this is put in a class/classes under the common namespace ar_iitk::lib_package_template. If the function definitions are one-liners, they may be defined here. Otherwise only declarations are to be written here.
    * src  
        * template.cpp  
        These cpp file(s) contain the actual definitions for all the functions declared in the header files inside lib_package_template/include/lib_package_template/, in serial order. 
    * test  
    This folder contains the code for testing individual functions using [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest). Instead of running the entire code, you can check particular functions, whether they are producing the correct output or not.
        * include  
            * lib_package_template_test  
                * template_test.hpp  
        * src
            * template_test.cpp  
            These file(s) contain the code for the test. For each function that you want to test, you need to write a seperate TEST() function. More details on how to write this code can be found [here.](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/googletest/docs/primer.md)  
    * CMakeLists.txt  
    Self explanatory. Note:We will use [catkin_simple](https://github.com/catkin/catkin_simple) as it makes writing our CMakeLists.txt a lot easier. For more information please refer the above link.  
    * package.xml  
    Self explanatory. [Link for reference.](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/package.xml)  
* msg_package_template  
This package contains all the custom [actions](http://wiki.ros.org/actionlib/Tutorials), [messages and services](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/CreatingMsgAndSrv) that your main ROS package needs. Refer to the links to learn how to write these.
    * action  
        * template.action  
        These file(s) contain the definitions of actions required by your ROS package.  
    * msg
        * template.msg  
        These file(s) contain the definitions of custom messages required by your ROS package.
    * srv  
        * template.srv  
        These file(s) contain the definitions of custom services required by your ROS package.  
    * CMakeLists.txt  
    Self explanatory.  
    * package.xml  
    Self explanatory.  
* ros_package_template  
This contains the main ROS package. All your package-specific code goes here.  
    * cfg  
        * template.cfg  
        These file(s) contains the parameters that you want to dynamically reconfigure during runtime. Refer to [this tutorial](http://wiki.ros.org/hokuyo_node/Tutorials/UsingDynparamToChangeHokuyoLaserParameters#PythonAPI) to learn more.  
        * template.yaml  
        These file(s) have the parameters that you want to load everytime you run your ROS nodes. It is always a good idea to put as many constants/values here as possible, so you don't have to recompile everytime you change a value.  
    * include
        * ros_package_template  
            * template_ros_pub.hpp, template_ros.hpp  
            These file(s) contains all the includes for the ROS package, and the declarations for all the variables+functions  in the ROS package. All of this is put in a class/classes under the common namespace ar_iitk::ros_package_template. If the function definitions are one-liners, they may be defined here. Otherwise only declarations are to be done here.  
    * launch
        * template.launch  
        Launch file(s) for launching your nodes, loading parameters, etc.  
    * rviz
        * template.rviz  
        Configuration file(s) generated by rviz.
    * scripts  
        * template.py  
        If your node(s) are written in python, then you need to put them here.
        * template.sh  
        Executable bash script(s) go here.
    * src  
        * template_ros_pub.cpp, template_ros.cpp  
        These cpp file(s) contain the actual definitions for all the functions declared in the header files inside ros_package_template/include/ros_package_template/, in serial order.  
        * template_ros_node.cpp
        These are the actual node(s) that your machine will run. This should be kept as de-cluttered as possible.  
    * test  
    As mentioned earlier, this folder contains the code for testing individual functions using [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest).
        * include  
            * lib_package_template_test  
                * template_test.hpp  
        * launch  
            * template_test.launch  
            Launch file(s) for launching the test(s).
        * src
            * template_test.cpp  
            More details on how to write this code can be found [here.](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/googletest/docs/primer.md)  
    * CMakeLists.txt  
    Self explanatory
    * package.xml
    Self explanatory
* .gitignore  
This file contains the list of all the files that you don't want to push with your repositories, like configuration files (like .vscode in this example), images, videos, certain folders, etc. Follows linux standard file/directory naming scheme. Each new entry must be written on a new line. More information can be found [here.](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore)
* README.md   
This file contains the description of your ROS package. Concisely write about the purpose of your package, requirements and steps to run it. Describe any other details as necessary. Follows markdown syntax.

                
    